so we're going to begin in Gaza where at
least two Palestinians have been killed
and several have been injured in Israeli
air strikes near al- AXA Hospital in Dar
albala initial reports suggest the
attack was carried out on tents housing
people forced from their homes as well
as journalists in the courtyard of the
medical
facility the hospital's Courtyard has
been directly targeted hospitals and
Medical Teams and all Health sector
workers must be protected
the International Community must provide
such protection the patients the wounded
and displaced people are in a state of
panic and horror fearing that the
Israeli plans will attack the hospital
again I went to say hello to my friends
the journalists in one of the tents and
suddenly something fell to the ground
and exploded I felt extremely dizzy and
after a while I looked up and found my
colleagues lying everywhere on the
ground I just want to thank Allah
Almighty for not being seriously injured
together with the others during the
shelling Al jaz's H Kadri was near the
AL AXA hospital when the attack happened
she sent this report almost straight
afterwards we're currently in a luxa
hospital where the Israeli Air Forces
targeted two of the TS with at least two
air strikes this is an area where there
are a lot of Palestinians seeking Refuge
this is a makeshift office for
journalists to work in inside the
hospital where there are hundreds of
thousands of Palestinian currently
seeking Refuge there has been dozens of
Palestinians injured there have been
horrifying scenes where the Israeli air
strikes damaged bodies of the
Palestinians who were targeted here we
still don't know how many Palestinians
have been killed according to the
eyewitnesses and the paramedics they're
saying that the air strike severely
damaged the bodies of the Palestinians
that were sitting here they literally
don't know how much Palestinians have
been killed it's horrifying everyone is
terrified seeking shelter in this
hospital for more than six months right
now nowhere is slave and Palestinians
are targeted in hospitals in schools in
makeshift tents Palestinians do not know
where to go this is alaz ala
Hospital is the executive director of
the international press Institute he's
joining us live now from Vienna um good
to have you with us uh tell me your
reaction first of all to these latest
strikes I I'm absolutely horrified that
again journalists are being uh injured
and possibly killed while working while
reporting it is absolutely difficult if
not impossible to believe that the
Israeli forces had no idea that this was
a a place where journalists were
functioning and working and this is
adding to a toll uh of journalists dead
in this conflict Which is higher than
any other conflict that we have recorded
in history this is absolutely horrific
um I'm just reading here there's a
statement that's come out from israeli's
military uh from the Reuters News
agencies quoting the Israeli military
saying that on Sunday it carried out an
air strike against a command center
operated by the armed Islamic Jihad
group in the courtyard of Alexa Hospital
in the Gaza Strip it said the Alexa
Hospital building was not damaged its
functioning wasn't affected it was uh
the they were struck precisely intended
on minimizing harm to uninvolved
civilians there are of course
protections given to journalists as whe
as well as medical staff when it comes
to conflict areas like this but this
clearly doesn't seem to have applied in
this
case I mean journalists are civilians
under all International rules under the
rules of War under the Geneva Convention
journalists are civilians and they have
to be treated as such and they have to
be protected even in times of wars and
uh conflict and it's very difficult to
believe that there was no understanding
or knowledge that this what that these
at least one of the tents in the nearby
area was being used by journalist as a
working area I mean I don't know where
else can people uh be safe in this
moment we've seen of course this kind of
situation before we've had so many cases
particularly in this region where
journal ists have been targeted as an
organization what kind of advice or
protection can you give to your members
when they're going into a conflict area
like
this I think this is a conflict like no
other we have ever seen um normally you
would tell journalists um and I'm sure
you have also done this kind of training
uh in terms of working in Conflict zones
in war zones where you put on protective
equipment where you try to stay safe
where you try to say in areas where
there is no fighting where you are you
know clearly displayed in journalist and
what we have seen is that even when
journalists clearly display uh the Press
symbol on their helmets on their flag
jackets they're still killed even
targeted there is clear evidence on a
number of cases which have been
researched very clearly that journalists
have been targeted even though they have
been displaying the uh press signs so
it's almost impossible what to say to
journalist they cannot leave um I've
been working uh with some of the other
organizations on how we can allow
journalist how we can find ways to
journalists to even leave this area and
what we are finding is that people have
to pay a ransom in order to leave um the
Gaza Strip This is just one of the most
horrific situations that we have come
across um it is of course the case in
many conflicts that particularly Al
jazer has covered over the years that
journalists are caught up in the
fighting and are killed as a result of
fighting which is going on in the area
which they're reporting are you noticing
a change towards the actual targeting of
journalists um my organization has not
done the research but what we have seen
is that uh other organizations such as
Amnesty International uh such as
reporters Without Borders have analyzed
a number of cases uh where journalists
were targeted there was a very
well-known case of journalists in
southern Lebanon in October where it was
clear and the evidence shows that
journalists were clearly visible uh the
cars were clearly marked as press they
were wearing the Press inia uh the Drone
was circling around them for a certain
amount of time clearly seeing who they
were before they were being attacked
there is also other cases of journalist
in Gaza I mean we cannot investigate
every single case because actually
journalists are not allowed to enter the
Gaza Strip as well so we are relying on
the reporting of the journalist on the
ground but what we are seeing is there
are number of cases where it has been
shown that journalists were targeted who
were clearly displaying the signia as
journalists who were clearly working as
journalists who were not combatants who
did not have weapons who were not
threatening but they were still killed
as journalists and this is something
that we have seen in this conflict a
number of times but it's also recently
in more and more conflicts we're seeing
that journalists are being targeted as
journalists for doing their work so this
is the safety of journalists is one of
the most horrific situations that we
have seen I think in a very long time
Fran morich is executive director of the
international press Institute uh thank
you very much indeed for being with us
let's go to TK abom in Rafa TK I
understand you've got an update on
what's been happening for
us yes that that's right as within the
past few hours the Israeli military has
targeted the one of the tents that
belongs to jist inside Al AA Hospital in
darel balah where at least two
Palestinians have been reported killed
while uh at least 10 others being
wounded till now and those who have been
wounded are now receiving a treatment
inside alaa hospital as medical sources
describing their medical condition to be
uh critical and now they have been
receiving much needed uh medical
treatment there and it's not the only
time that hospitals have been bombarded
and attacked on all areas where the
Israeli forces previously had operated
had destroyed and damaged the majority
of hospitals and make it comes out of uh
service and right now they are attacking
hospitals that is considered to be one
of the largest hospitals that providing
medical treatment for hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians in the middle
areas where there had been clear damage
being inflicted to the area of the bming
right now as the attack has been widely
condemned by the gaza's government media
office describing the situation there to
be really dangerous escalation as it has
calling the International Community to
uh perer its responsibility and to force
Israel to scale back its military uh
campaign uh across the Gaza Strip and
that's absolutely terrifying as
journalists another time being attacked
with no kind of protection for those uh
class of the Palestinian Community who
are tirelessly in order to deliver all
the latest updates on the ground here
and mainly right now they have been
widely again targeted as since the
beginning of the conflict more than 130
Palestinians uh journalists being killed
so
far T thank you very much indeed t a
zoom talking to us from
Rafa